Actually before coming to how to use the set up or how to use vuex in bigger applications and how
we might organize it with different files,
let me highlight one important special case.
Imagine the following, in our store,
we now not only got the counter but we also got let's say the value, the global value, it's zero initially.
Now this value shall be set in any of our components,
so for that I will quickly set up a getter which I'll simply name value
and here I get my state and I simply want to return state value like this and I want to create a mutation
for it which I'll name updateValue which gets the state and the payload and then here,
I simply want to set state value equal to payload, so that in the payload is just a number which should
be the new value. And I will set up an action for this, the action I want to set up is also called
update value
and here I do get my object where I'm only interested in the commit method
and I do get my payload and therefore, I can then call commit update value which is the name of the mutation
I want to execute and pass on the payload.
So far so standard, that's nothing we haven't done yet,
now in the app.vue file let's say, here I want to add a new horizontal line below all my counter
stuff and I want to add an input which is of type text which actually should allow me to set this value.
So here is where it becomes tricky,
I'll quickly set up my computed property for value, I'll name it value like this
and here I simply want to return this store
getters value,
that's the name of the getter I created for that.
And if I set value equal to value here and we see this in the application, we see it works,
we see 0 here but what's the issue we got here?
Well let's say we actually want to not only display the value but set it,
so v-model value will not work because the value is a computed property, not a normal property, computed
only returns us a value,
so if we do this and update it and write 10 here, our state will not be affected by this, we can see this
by simply adding a paragraph down there where I output value like this.
If I do that, you'll see it doesn't change if I type up here because the state in our store
isn't touched because our computed value, the value here is only a getter,
we're not able to set it with two-way binding like we want to do here.
How can we fix this?
Well here's one way how we could fix it,
this is we set up a method and in this method which I'll call update value for example,
all I want to do is get my event here of course and then simply call this store dispatch update value
and pass event target value as an argument,
so the value of this input field as an argument. With that in place, I can go up to my input and change
this back to just value for now because we're not two-way binding, instead add the input event here and
execute update value on it,
so this newly created method. With that if I reload this and I enter something here, you see the state
gets updated as well,
so now it's working
but the problem is well it's our custom two-way binding we set up here, what if we really wanted
to use the shorter way of using v-model value,
that would be much nicer, wouldn't it?
Well we can do it by ignoring this method and instead changing our computed property,
something I haven't really shown until now is that you can for computed properties set up a getter and
a setter.
I didn't show it because you rarely need that,
most of the time you only want to get the data,
that's what a computed property is there for
but you can turn your computed property into an object where we then have a get and a set method.
The getter was of course responsible for getting the value, so that is what your computed property would always
be like
and then the setter is this new thing which you rarely use,
so here in the setter, you get the value and then you can simply call this store dispatch update value
here and pass the value.
So again this is something I didn't show before because using a setter in a computed property is something
you rarely need because you rarely want to set something there, computed
in the end means it depends on something else and gets recalculated
and this is a very rare exception where we want to do something whenever we try to set the value.
So if we do that and reload this, you now it still works,
now by using v-model up here and our computed property which now actually is an object with a getter
and a setter. Again use with caution,
this is one of the very rare places where you want to use a getter and a setter
but here it's perfectly fine because this now allows us to use v-model with our property which is
bound to the state of our application.